Nathalie: Hi, my name is Nathalie Reyes.
Adriana: My name is Adriana Reali.
Scott: This is Scott Davert.
Chris: And I'm Chris Woodfill.
[music plays]
Chris: I’ll start by explaining the  communication
access that we have here today.
I'm a visual sign language user,
and I'm using a visual sign language
interpreter to access communication.
We have Adriana, who uses a tactile
sign language interpreter,
who will interpret everything
being said and signed.
And Adriana will receive
all of that information tactilely.
Nathalie and Scott have microphones
as part of an FM system.
The FM system is connected to a Bluetooth,
which can transmit
the auditory information
directly into their hearing aids.
We also have voice interpreters
interpreting what Adriana and I are signing.
We are fully inclusive and we have full
communication access for this roundtable.
[music plays]
Scott: I certainly prefer getting content
through my hearing aids and the method
that you already talked about.
And that works well for me.
Now, there are other environments
where using the microphone,
the FM system is not necessarily
the best option for me.
There are certain situations
where it's so loud that
I can't hear anything really
or make much sense of it.
And this is because my hearing aids
amplify everything.
So that includes background noise.
They don't have a hearing aids
that read your mind yet, unfortunately.
So in louder environments,
I have a variety of different things I use.
I use something called the Rochester
method.
And the Rochester method is essentially
the ability to
have hand shapes, form letters
into the hand of the other person.
So, for example,
I'm using my left hand
and showing the letter ‘S,’
which is a closed fist
with the thumb on the outside.
So that's a non-auditory way
in which I sometimes access communication.
Chris: You highlight how varied
our communication preferences
can be depending
on the setting and situation.
There is no one way to communicate
and you demonstrate that clearly.
Moving on to Nathalie.
Nathalie: Yes, so my form
of communication is verbal.
I prefer speaking with people in quiet places.
As Scott described,
technology has improved,
but when it comes to loud environments
like a restaurant or a concert, a bar...
it can be a tricky situation
A communication
I use is American Sign Language
and it's been very helpful
in communicating
expecially in a loud environment.
That way I have more access to know
what's going on.
But again,
I rely more verbally
so I enjoy talking with people
and it is very important
that because I wear hearing aids
it doesn’t mean I cannot hear
or communicate with people.
Chris: Thank you again, Nathalie,
for describing the variety
of communication approaches
you have in various settings.
Let's move next to Adriana.
Adriana: Recently, I have become
almost completely blind,
which I have accepted,
which I have accepted.
And that is the reason I am a fully
tactile user and a haptics user.
A perfect example
is that I can't see here today
and that's the reason why my interpreter
is sitting next to me,
giving me environmental information so
I can understand the layout of the space.
She lets me know who's talking or signing.
She also is providing haptics on my back,
giving me information
like the other participants’
facial expression.
She might identify that someone is moving
or when we're interpreting switching,
or when the food or drinks
have arrived, effortlessly.
Now, when I'm in public or encounter
people in the world that don't know
sign language, I typically use
a notes app with my iPhone.
So I can communicate through texts.
I use a Braille display and we're able
to have an exchange that way.
Sometimes I don't have technology
or my equipment with me,
I have to use communication cards,
so that people can read
what is on the cards.
Then they can respond
using POP or ‘print on palm.’
And that's how I communicate in public.
Chris: I'll take a minute
to describe print on palm.
You need to use all uppercase letters
and you print the letters out one by one
on the palm of the person's hand.
So if I were spelling out ‘Chris,’
I would spell C-H-R-I-S.
Adriana: Each of our communication
preferences are different.
Look at Nathalie, Scott, Chris, and me.
Some of us are deaf
and some are hard of hearing.
It's not easy.
Chris: The pattern you'll notice so far
is that no one uses
only one way to communicate.
Their communication preferences
and approaches are dependent
on the different situations they are in.
Scott, I'm wondering what your options are
for communicating with someone
if you don't have
any technology available.
What are your options?
How do you communicate with people
in the absence of technology?
Ah, switch interpreters first.
Scott: I always wear my hearing aids unless I want
to quickly end an argument or something.
Then I turn them off and I don't hear
anything, so I win no matter what.
To be serious, though,
some of it really just
depends on the situation
and also the state of my hearing that day.
Sometimes I will take an SSPs with me.
SSP is a ‘Support Service Provider’
and they help provide environmental
information to the DeafBlind individual.
as well as helping
you know how to navigate.
I tend to use SSPs
as a more reliable thing because,
as everyone knows, technology is great
when it works, but it doesn't always,
the same way print on palm
doesn't always work for everybody.
So in those type of situation,
if I don't have access to any technology,
I hope I have someone around me
who I can turn to, to work with me
and provide some communication support.
I don’t have one method that is 100% reliable
and that's why I, like the rest of you,
have so many different ways
of communicating because
plans A and B might both fail.
You have to have a plan C, you know,
especially when it comes to situations
where the technology isn't available.
Chris: This has been a great discussion.
How we communicate has been different.
I hope our discussion
has helped the larger audience
understand the ways
in which we communicate
and that they now have
a greater understanding
of the diversity of our communication.
Thank you to all of you
for participating in this roundtable.
Thank you so much.
[music ends]